#if CKBK
#def SCT F-2.
#def DSH ----
#else
#def SCT
#def DSH
#end
SCT2 Numbered Messages
DSH-------------------

Numbered error messages occur during the execution of the program and
will be those most encountered.  They are preceded by a number and an
error type indicator.


SCT1 Format of Numbered Error Messages
DSH-----------------------------------

The format of the error messages is,

	(a###) string_1 : string_2 
      	string_3
	
The character represented by `a' indicates the type of error (see
below) and can be,

   	P -- POPS internal error 
   	S -- Severe error when executing a command
   	F -- Fatal error when executing a command 
   	W -- Warning message 
   	I -- Interpretor error when compiling a command line

The ### indicate the error number (listed below)

string_1 is the error message corresponding to ### (listed below).

string_2 is sometimes present and provides more information about the
error.  If you get a certain numbered error, you will always get the
same string_1 but you can get different string_2's.

string_3 describes whether or not the full command line was executed,
whether any command on the command line was executed, or whether only
parts of the command line were executed and the rest ignored.


SCT2  Error Types
DSH--------------

.  POPS (P) Errors
   ---------------
   All POPS (P) errors should be reported to the computer staff; they
   indicate that the program is acting very abnormally and may be
   hemorrhaging internally.


.  Severe (S) Errors
   -----------------
   Severe (S) errors are less fatal then F, P, or I errors but are more
   severe than W errors.  They occur after UniPOPS compiles the command
   line and when it is executing the commands specified on the command
   line.

   If an S error occurs and the verb ERRON was specified (the default)
   then all commands up to that which caused the error will have been
   executed.  The corresponding error message is printed and all
   remaining commands on the command line are NOT executed.  For
   example,

         >BDROP=10; HANNING; COPY(0,1); GET 34.03; BASELINE GAUSS

   will generate an S error if scan 34.03 doesn't exist.  The BDROP=10
   HANNING and COPY commands will be executed but the GET will fail and no
   attempt is made by the program to execute the BASELINE and GAUSS.

   If the verb ERROFF was specified, and only one S type error occurs
   during the execution of the command line, then all the commands will
   be executed properly except that which produced the error.  The
   program switches to ERRON whenever an S error occurs, so only one S
   error will be trapped by each ERROFF.  For example,

	>BDROP=10; HANNING; COPY(0,1); ERROFF GET 34.03; BASELINE GAUSS

   will generate an S error if scan 34.03 doesn't exist.  The BDROP=10
   and HANNING will be executed, the GET will fail and a message will
   be printed. An attempt will be made to execute the BASELINE and
   GAUSS commands.  If BASELINE or GAUSS also produce an S error,
   another error message will be printed and that command, and all
   others on the command line, will be ignored.

.  Fatal (F) Errors
   ----------------
   Fatal (F) error occur after UniPOPS compiles the command line and
   it is executing the commands specified on the command line.

   If an F error occurs then all commands up to the one which caused
   the error are executed.  The corresponding error message is printed
   and all remaining commands on the command line are NOT executed.
   For example,

         BDROP=10; TABLE NFIT=14; BASELINE HANNING GAUSS

   will generate an F error at the BASELINE command since NFIT is
   greater then 12.  The BDROP=10, TABLE, and NFIT=14 commands will be
   executed but the BASELINE will fail and no attempt will be made by
   the program to execute the HANNING and GAUSS.

.  Warning (W) Errors
   ------------------
   Warning (W) messages are just that.  The program has detected something
   that you should be aware of.  An attempt will be made to compile the
   complete command line and execute all commands found there.  Other
   errors may be caught later on as the command line is further compiled
   and executed.  These other errors, if present, will be handled
   according to their type.

.  Interpretor (I) Errors
   ----------------------
   Errors can occur during the interpretation and compilation of the
   command line.  If such an interpretor (I) error occurs, the input
   line is ignored and no commands are executed.  Thus, if FGGGF is not
   the name of a verb or procedure, the following line will generate an
   I type error and no command on the line will be executed.

	>PRINT 'HELLO'; READ BDROP; FGGGF
   

SCT3 Error Messages and Numbers
DSH----------------------------

Errors are numbered from 1 upwards; numbers less than 100 are mainly
interpretor errors, between 100 and 200 are general execution errors,
200 through 350 are errors generated by verbs, and 350 through 400 are
I/O errors.  There is no logical order within each group, and error
numbers are not sequential.

Below, the errors are arranged by number with a brief description of
what the errors mean.

	(1) Blew core - Exceeded PROC or ADVERB space

		You have tried to create an adverb or procedure and
		there is no more room.  See COMPRESS, SCRATCH, and
		RESTART for help about overcoming a blown core.

	(2) Unknown symbol

		You have typed in the name of a non-existent command or
		adverb outside of compile mode, or the command line
		does not contain a command, only the name of
		adverb(s).


	(3) Symbol is already defined

		You have attempted to create a procedure, string,
		array or alias that already exists.

	(4) Too many characters in line

		The command line has a limit of 160 characters which
		has been exceeded.  Note that each use of array math
		reduces this by about 50 characters.

	(5) Symbol has too many characters (10 max.)

		You have specified a command or adverb name with more
		than 10 characters.

	(6) Cannot alter a BUILTIN operator or operand

		You have tried to define, edit, or scratch a procedure
		or adverb that has the same name as one that is built
		into the system.  Such operators and operands cannot be
		modified by the user.

	(7) STACK limits exceeded

		A general syntax error.  Check command line for errors
		in assignment statements, loops, conditionals, etc.
		This is NOT referring to the ASTACK array but an
		internal array used for compiling and processing
		UniPOPS commands.

	(8) Error in syntax -- No closing )

		For every `(' there must be a closing `)'.

	(9) Operating system command has failed

		UniPOPS uses standard UNIX commands for several verbs
		(HELP, EXPLAIN, SYSTEM, EDIT, etc).  This error
		indicates that the UNIX command has reported an error
		code.  There are a number of reason that this might
		occur, ranging from memory limitations to NFS
		difficulties.  Check the console for any error messages
		that the failed UNIX command may have left there.

	(10) Left hand side of = is not an adverb

		The object to the left of an = sign (assignment) is not
		an adverb or internal-array verb; only adverbs and
		internal-array verbs can be assigned values.

	(11) No procedure by that name

		You have attempted to POPSEDIT a procedure which
		doesn't exist, or you have attempted to LIST a
		procedure which doesn't exist.


	(12) Must give a line number when editing procedure

		You have tried to POPSEDIT a procedure but didn't
		correctly specify the line number to edit.


	(13) You are not POPSEDITing a procedure

		You have typed ENDEDIT but were not `POPSEDIT'ing a
		procedure.


	(14) Too many characters in string (60 max.)

		You are attempting to create a string adverb with
		greater than 60 characters, or you have entered a
		literal constant containing more than 60 characters.

	(15) Error in syntax -- Bad numerical field

		You have entered a bad number.

	(16) Cannot perform outside of compile mode

		You have tried to execute a verb which can only be used
		when defining a procedure (i.e., in `compile-mode').

	(17) Cannot perform within compile mode

		You have tried to enter a pseudo-verb in the definition
		of a procedure (i.e., in `compile-mode'); pseudo verbs
		can only be run from `execute-mode'.

	(18) Error in syntax in definition of procedure

		In the definition of a procedure, you have made a
		syntax error.

	(19) Error in syntax -- No opening (

		For every `(' there must be a closing `)'. Or, you need
		an opening ( in the creation of an array adverb using
		the ARRAY command.

	(20) Ambiguous symbol

		The typed command line contains a command or adverb for
		which minimum-match cannot remove an ambiguity.  The
		list of possible commands is also listed by this
		error.

	(21) Error in IF, FOR, or WHILE syntax

		There is something wrong with the IF, FOR, or WHILE
		statement you have just entered.

	(22) Error in dimension statement

		When creating an array adverb with the ARRAY command,
		you have made a syntax error.

	(25) Error in string definition

		When creating a string adverb with the STRING command,
		you have made a syntax error.

	(27) Error in syntax in ! command

		Your usage of the ! command is wrong.

	(28) No more input devices can be opened.

		There is a limit of 50 input devices which can be
		opened at once.  HELP, SETUP, BATCH, and your
		terminal are each an input device.  The most common
		cause of this error is an infinite regression of batch
		within batch.

	(29) Insufficient or Bad argument list

		The verb you have tried to execute requires an argument
		that you have not supplied, or the argument is not a
		scalar adverb.

	(30) Only STORE bins 1 - 3 exist

		The STORE and RESTORE commands take only numbers 1, 2,
		or 3 as arguments.

	(31) Error in CHNGFILE

		You have specified a wrong file type for CHNGFILE.  
		See the CHNGFILE documentation for help.

	(32) Cannot UNDO or nothing to UNDO

		An UNDO command will not work if UNDOOFF has been
		specified or there aren't any commands to UNDO.

	(34) Error in Syntax -- Unbalanced Parentheses

		Either a closing ) was omitted or an opening ( is
		missing.

	(35) Error in Syntax -- Unbalanced Braces

		Either a closing } was omitted or an opening { is
		missing.

	(36) PROCEDURE name already exists

		The name of the procedure you are trying to create has
		already been used.

	(37) No closing quote

		A closing quote was left off of a literal string or a
		quote was supplied where one is not needed.

	(38) No OPERATOR on input line

		At least one operator is required on every command
		line.

	(39) Must be the only command on the input line

		The command in question cannot be used in conjunction
		with any other command on the same input line.

	(40) Specified line number cannot be POSEDITed

		The line number you specified can not be edited.  You
		are not allowed to edit the first line of a procedure
		or any declaration lines using POPSEDIT.  If you must
		change these lines, use the EDIT verb to modify a disk
		file and BATCH that file in to overwrite the existing
		procedure.

	(41) Two or more names are identical

		You are trying to create a list of adverbs or aliases
		and two of the names in the list are identical.

	(42) Statement not allowed or out of sequence

		In a procedure definition, you are trying to either add
		adverb declarations among executable lines or
		executable lines among executables.  Move the lines you
		are attempting to insert in the procedure definition
		accordingly.

	 (43) Pseudo operators not allowed.

		You can not use pseudo verbs in the argument string
		for the EXEC verb.

	 (44) No OPERATOR in string.

		The argument string for the EXEC verb must contain
		at least on operator.

	(104) Too many characters in input line

		You have attempted to enter a command line, or are
		entering adverb values using a read, which exceeds the
		160 character limit for input lines.

	(105) Arrays are numbered between 0 and 9

		You have specified a data array number out of the
		usable range.

	(106) Error in use of an array

		Error in either the use of an array adverb or in the
		index to an array adverb (e.g., specifying a location
		outside of the array dimensions).

	(107) STACK limits exceeded

		General error usually indicating a syntax problem.
		Probable error in FOR, IF, WHILE, array usage, or
		string usage.

	(111) No procedure by that name

		An internal POPS error -- Report problem to the
		computer staff.

	(112) Insufficient or Bad argument list

		Verbs and procedures require arguments of required type
		and number.  A bad argument was specified.  See the
		documentation for the command for further help.

	(114) Too many characters in string

		A string argument to a verb contains too many
		characters for the verb.  See the verb's documentation
		for further help.

	(115) Error in FOR loop

		Probable error in syntax in FOR loop.

	(116) Error in RETURN

		Probable error in syntax of RETURN statement.

	(118) Infinite FOR loop?

		The FOR loop would be executed an infinite number of
		times using the specified start, stop, and increment.


	(120) *** INTERNAL Error ***

		An internal POPS error -- Report problem to the
		computer staff.


	(123) Error in data type for READ

		Tried to read into something other than a scalar
		adverb, array adverb, or string adverb.

	(124) Error in data type for PRINT

		Tried to print out something other than a scalar
		adverb, array adverb, or string adverb.

	(126) Error in assignment statement

		Probable syntax problem in an assignment statement or
		the left and right hand sides of the equal sign are not
		the same type of adverb.

	(127) Too many characters in right-hand string

		You have attempted to assign values from one string to
		another but the string on the right hand side of the
		equals has more characters then the one on the left.

	(128) Error in use of an array

		Error in either the use of an array adverb or in the
		index to an array adverb (e.g., specifying a location
		outside of the array dimensions).

	(129) COPYOFF in affect -- no hardcopy generated

		You have attempted a hardcopy command (GCOPY or TCOPY)
		but COPYOFF was in affect.  To get a hardcopy, type
		COPYON, regenerate the desired display, and type your
		hardcopy command.

	(130) Too many or too few operands

		You have specified too many or too few arguments to an
		operator on the command line, or arguments of the wrong
		type.  Check your usage of each operator.

	(131) No room left in CORE for run-time variables

		Your available core space is getting low and there is
		not enough room to run your commands on the command
		line.  Give yourself more memory space by using
		COMPRESS, SCRATCH, or RESTART.

	(132) Error while COMPRESSing

		Your COMPRESS command has failed and nothing has been
		compressed.  This is an internal error and you should
		inform the computer division of your problem.

	(133) Two or more imbedded array math constructs

		You can only use one array math syntax on a command
		line.  This includes any array math syntax that might
		be found in any procedures that the command line
		invokes (either directly or indirectly).

	(219) Cannot have YMINP or YMAXP <= 0 for log plots

		Cannot have negative plot limits for logarithmic
		plots.  You must change your y-axis plot limits.

	(220) Cannot have XMINP or XMAXP <= 0 for log plots

		Cannot have negative plot limits for logarithmic
		plots.  You must change your x-axis plot limits.

	(221) No data in Arrays (0), (1), or (2)

		Verb requires that data exists in Arrays (0), (1), and
		(2).  One of these data arrays must have been empty.

	(222) No data in Arrays (0) or (1)

		Verb requires that data exists in Arrays (0) and (1).
		One of these data arrays must have been empty.

	(223) No data in Array (2)

		Verb requires that data exists in Array (2).  The data
		array must have been empty.

	(224) No SCAN in Array (0)

		Verb requires that data exists in Array (0) and that it
		is from a telescope scan.  The data array may have been
		empty or the data is not that from a scan.

	(225) No data in Array (0)

		Verb requires that data exists in Array (0).  The data
		array must have been empty.

	(226) No data in specified Array

		Verb requires data in certain data arrays but the
		arrays must be empty.  See the verb's documentation for
		more details.

	(227) Nothing to average

		You have tried to AVE data but no data was either
		`SUM'med or `ACCUM'med.

	(228) NBOX must be odd, >0 and <=13

		NBOX must be a positive odd number for BOXCAR to work.

	(229) Bad GMFRAC -- Don't expect the right answer

		GMFRAC must be > 0 and <= 1.

	(230) Array (0) and internal ACCUM array differ

		Probably the data you are averaging have different
		channel resolutions.

	(231) Bad scan numbers

		For ADDSCAN, you have specified a stopping scan number 
		less than a starting number or you have specified a scan
		number increment less than zero.

	(232) Cannot be used on Green Bank on-line data

		Data access of gains scans (through the CHNGONLINE,
		CGGET, TELL GSCANS, and GGET verbs) only make sense
		when accessing on-line data file from the NRAO 12-m .

	(233) Error in NREGION

		For some index i, NREGION(i+1) is less than NREGION(i),
		NREGION(i) <= 0, or NREGION(i) > number of data
		points.  NREGION needs to be redefined.


	(234) Fit failed

		Either GAUSS, RIPPLE, PDOC, or RSHAPE has failed to
		find a solution.

	(235) Improper use of SMWGT(1) - either < 1 or > 10

		SMWGT(1) must be > 1 and less than 11 for SMOOTH to
		work.

	(236) Error in NREGION, BBASE, or EBASE

		Baseline regions overlap for some reason.  Check values
		of BBASE, EBASE, NREGION, or set BMARK = TRUE and SHOW
		the data.

	(237) DCPCT must be > 0 and < 100

		You have specified a value for DCPCT that is either
		less than 1, or greater than 99.

	(238) Scan has different filterbank resolution

		You have tried to average data with two different
		backend resolutions.  Use CHNGRES on one of the data
		arrays before averaging.

	(239) STACK is full, (5120 max.)

		You have attempted to ADDSTACK scan numbers to 
		STACK and have exceeded the 5120 scan number limit.

	(240) Only for Green Bank data

		The verb you have tried to use requires Green Bank
		data and the data in question is not from Green Bank.

	(241) Only for Spectral Processor data

		The verb you have tried to use requires data from
		the Spectral Processor in Green Bank and the data
		in question does not meet that requirement.

	(242) MDBOX must be odd and < number of data points

		You have given a value to MDBOX which is not an odd
		integer.

	(243) New channel width is less than old

		The resolution can only be reduced, it can't be
		increased.

	(244) Crosshair was not positioned over a plot

		The crosshair needs to be over a plot on the graphics
		screen.

	(245) Index out of range

		You have specified an index for verb that is beyond the
		limits of what is permissible.  Check your usage of the
		verb.

	(246) Only for NRAO 12m data

		The verb you have tried to use requires data from the
		NRAO 12-m telescope and the data in question is not
		from that telescope.


	(247) Not a frequency-switched spectrum

		Cannot RAP a non-frequency-switched scan.

        (248) Data is not from the NRAO 12m telescope

		You have tried to use a verb that can only be used on
		data taken with the 12-m telescope but the present data
		was not taken with that telescope.

        (249) Array (1) has more/less data then Array (0)

		The number of data points in Array (0) is not the same
		as that in Array (1).

	(250) Not an antenna tipping

		You have tried to execute SOLVETIP on a scan that is
		not an antenna tipping.

	(251) Bad value for ASHIFT

		You have specified a value for ASHIFT that is greater
		than the number of channels of data in Array (0).

	(252) Too few data points in array

		The analysis you have tried to do requires a minimum
		number of data points and the data array does not have
		more than that number of data points.

	(253) No SCAN in Internal ACCUM array

		Verb requires that an ACCUM or SUM has been performed
		previously.

	(254) Bad MXMIN, MYMIN, MXMAX, or MYMAX

		You have specified values for one of these adverbs
		which is out of the range of the contents of Matrix
		(0).  Correct the wrong adverb value(s).

	(255) Nothing in Matrix (0)

		Verb requires that data exists in Matrix (0). The
		matrix is probably empty.

	(256) Nothing in specified matrix

		Verb requires that data exists in the specified
		Matrix.  The matrix is probably empty.

	(257) Cannot copy/move a matrix onto itself

		You have tried to MCOPY or MREMOVE a matrix on top of
		itself.

	(258) Out of the range of matrix

		You have specified an x or y-axis value that is beyond
		the limits of contents of Matrix (0).

	(259) Bad LEVS values

		The values stored in LEVS array adverb probably are not
		in increasing value, all values are default values, or
		all values are either greater than or less than the
		maximum or minimum, respectively, of the data in Matrix	(0).

        (260) Pixel size too big for graphics screen

		The HLFTNE plot you are trying to create has too few
		elements.

	(261) Bad color value

		The color value you have specified does not follow the
		rules for assigning colors.

	(262) Bad Line type

		The line-type value you have specified does not follow
		the rules for assigning line types.

	(263) Cannot copy/move an array onto itself

		You have tried to COPY or MOVE an array on top of
		itself.

	(264) Previous plot was not a MATRIX plot

		The verb requires that the previous display be a two-
		dimensional plot (e.g., CONTOUR, RASTER, etc.)

	(265) Invalid number of data points in array

		The verb requires a certain number of data points in
		Array (0).  Probably, you have the wrong kind of
		observation in Array (0).

	(266) Invalid value specified for NOINT or SPN

		The sum of NOINT and SPN in the header must not
		exceed 10241.

	(267) Array and Matrix size are not the same

		This is a warning message that is issued by GETROW,
		GETCOL PUTROW, and PUTCOL when the sizes of Array (0)
		and Matrix (0) in the appropriate direction are not the
		same.  This error message also informs you how many
		values were transferred.

	(268) Undefined data point exists

		Some verbs can deal with undefined data values while
		others can not.  This message is issued when an
		undefined value is encounted.  It will also include
		information on whether the verb was able to proceed
		by skipping those values or whether the verb was
		unable to proceed.

	(269) Array must have an even number of points

		CHNGRES requires an even number of points in 
		Array (0).

	(270) Incomplete velocity header parameters

		The verb requires certain header parameters in order to
		calculate velocities using your desired definition.
		Add the necessary items to the scan header.

	(271) Incomplete frequency header parameters

		The verb requires certain header parameters in order to
		calculate frequencies using your desired definition.
		Add the necessary items to the scan header.

	(272) Incomplete header parameters

		The verb requires certain header parameters in order to
		perform its calculation.  Add the necessary items to
		the scan header.    

	(273) Incomplete matrix header parameters

		The verb requires certain header parameters in order to
		perform its calculation.  Add the necessary items to
		the matrix header.    

	(274) Nothing in Matrix (1)

		The verb requires that some valid data be present in
		Matrix (1)

	(275) Matrices (0) and (1) have different shapes

		The verb requires that both matrices have the same 
		number of pixels in each dimension.

	(281) Bad ACOUNT (either < 0 or > 5120)

		ACOUNT must be >= 0 and <= 5120 for certain verbs to
		work.  See the write-up about the verb for more details.

	(282) Iteration limit exceeded

		The current iterative fit did not converge.  Check your
		fitting parameters or increase the value of NITER to
		allow for more iterations.

	(283) Data is not from an NRAO telescope

		Some verbs know only how to work on data scans from
		NRAO telescopes.

	(284) Bad parameters; check associated adverbs

		There is a problem with the initial parameters for the 
		sinusoidal baseline fitting verbs RIPPLE and RSHAPE.
		Check the documentation for those verbs and the
		value of each parameter.

	(285) Bad value for BGAUSS or EGAUSS

		BGAUSS is >= EGAUSS, BGAUSS <= 0, or EGAUSS > number of
		data points.  Respecify BGAUSS or EGAUSS.

	(286) Bad value in GREGION, BGAUSS, or EGAUSS

		For some index i, GREGION(i+1) is less than GREGION(i),
		GREGION(i) <= 0, or GREGION(i) > number of data
		points.  GREGION needs to be redefined.

	(287) Bad value for BBASE or EBASE

		Either BBASE < 0, EBASE+BBASE > number of data points,
		or EBASE < 0.  Reset the values of BBASE or EBASE.

	(288) Bad value for BDROP or EDROP

		Either BDROP < 0, EDROP < 0, or BDROP+EDROP is greater
		then the number of data points.  Reset adverbs.

	(289) Bad value for NGAUSS

		NGAUSS must be > 0 and less than 13.  Reset NGAUSS.

	(290) Bad CENTER or HWIDTH

		For Gaussian routines, the NGAUSS values of arrays
		CENTER and HWIDTH must be in channels and > 0.


	(291) Bad FS or FR

		You can't RAP a Tucson 12-m observation without
		specifying FS and FR.  FS cannot equal FR nor can they
		be zero.

	(292) Bad BMOMENT or EMOMENT

		BMOMENT can't be <= 0, EMOMENT can't be > number of
		data points, and EMOMENT can't be <= BMOMENT; reset
		adverbs.

	(293) Bad WEIGHT

		WEIGHT can't be <= 0.0 for SUM to work properly.

	(294) Cannot use after a PLOT

		The last display was generated by a PLOT command; this
		limits you to only certain kinds of graphics calls with
		such a display.

	(295) Error in GAUSS

		You have specified a bad set of input parameters.  Check
		the values of all adverbs used by GAUSS.

	(296) Bad value for MRATIO

		MRATIO must be > 0 for a two-dimensional display.

	(297) Bad NFIT or too few channels for fit

		For this error to occur, some of the following may be
		true:  NFIT < 0, NFIT > 12, or number of data points is
		<= NFIT.  Redefine NFIT.

	(298) Last plot was not a SHOW

		The last display was not generated by a SHOW command;
		this limits you to only certain kinds of graphics calls
		with such a display.

	(299) No previous plot

		You have typed a command for which a previous display
		is needed.  No display command has been issued yet.

	(300) Inappropriate on-line file type

		You specified a file type to CHNGONLINE or CHNGVER
		which is inappropriate for the program you are
		running (HCTYPE and FBTYPE are for line use only,
	 	CONTYPE is for CONDAR use only)

	(301) Invalid DATE string

		You specified a DATE string while setting the
		MDATE header word of a matrix which had the wrong form.
		The date string must have one of the following FITS
		standard forms: DD/MM/YY for dates from 1900 to 1999,
		YYYY-MM-DD and YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss[.sss] for any
		date.  It is strongly recommended that you use one
		of the later two forms.  Both digits in each field
		must be present (i.e. leading zeros are required).
		If you are including a time in the later form, it
		must include all digits up to the first two digits
		in the seconds field.  The current date in the
		matrix will remain unchanged when you see this
		error.

	(352) Error in opening file

		An error occurred when attempting to open a file.
		Either the file doesn't exist, you don't have
		permission to create files in the current directory, or
		you don't have read or write privileges to an existing
		file.


	(353) PRINTOUT file is unavailable

		You have tried to do something with the PRINTOUT file
		but none was available for your use.  Look at the
		output of the FILES command and execute CHNGFILE to
		create a PRINTOUT file.

	(354) Command Logging file is unavailable

		You have tried to start up command logging but a log
		file was not available for your use.  Look at the
		output of the FILES command and execute CHNGFILE to
		create a log file.

	(355) File write error

		An error was detected when an attempt was made to write
		to a file.  The file or current directory may have the
		wrong permissions, the disk is full, or the file
		doesn't exist.

	(356) Error in closing file

		An error was detected when an attempt was made to close
		a file.  The file or current directory may have the
		wrong permissions, the disk is full, the file doesn't
		exist, or the file was never opened.

	(357) File read error

		An error was detected when an attempt was made to read
		from a file.  The file or current directory may have
		the wrong permissions, the disk is full, or the file
		doesn't exist.


	(358) SAVE file is unavailable

		You have attempted to access the `save' file but none
		is currently available.  Look at the output of the
		FILES command and execute CHNGFILE to create a `save'
		file.

	(359) Data file has a problem with its INDEX

		For some reason, the index section of a data file is
		bad.  Possibilities include:  It is not an SDD file or
		the file may have become altered by another program.
		Look at the output of FILES and, if needed, run the
		checkfile.exe utility on the data file, and, as a last
		resort, run the makeindex.exe utility on the file.

	(360) Data conversion problem

		The data in a disk file cannot be converted into the
		UniPOPS internal format.  Probably, the file or data is
		not in SDD format.  Use the `checkfile.exe' utility to
		find out what is in the file.

	(361) No current scan or ONLINE data not available

		Either the on-line file is not available (see CHNGPRJ),
		or there is no current scan taken with the specified
		backend.

	(362) Scan not found or ONLINE data not available

		Probably the specified scan is not in the on-line or
		off-line data files or these files are not available.

	(363) Data file may have become corrupted

		During an attempt to store data to a data file, the
		index to the file may or may not have been correctly
		updated.  Probably, the protections on the file or
		current directory are wrong or the file doesn't exist.

	(364) Bad file name or no file name was specified

		The command needs a file name as a parameter and none
		was provided or the file name provided does not exist
		or has the wrong permissions.

	(365) FITS file is not in the required format

		You have tried to read in a FITS image file but the
		file was not in FITS image format or is in a FITS
		format which the program cannot read.

	(366) File cannot be deleted

		The program has tried to delete a file but was
		unsuccessful.  Probably either the file does not exist
		or the file or its directory has the wrong access
		privileges.


	(367) Online data file is not available

		The program can not access any on-line data.  Exiting
		the program and starting over or using the RESTART verb
		may help.


	(368) NSAVE is empty

		You have attempt a RECALL using a value of NSAVE which
		does not point to any data in the current save file.

	(370) File is not open.

		The indicated file has not been previously opened.  Use
		the FILES or CHNGFILE command change the status of the
		file.

	(371) NSAVE value is out of range for SAVE file.

		You are attempting to save a scan to a location that is
		outside the index of the current SAVE file.  NSAVE must
		be greater than 0 and less that the maximum number of
		scans which can be indexed in the file.   Use the
		checkfile.exe utility at a UNIX prompt to determine how
		many scans a file can hold.

	(372) Error on rewinding file.

		An attempt at rewinding a file to its beginning has
		failed!  If you see this message and don't understand
		why you got it, please inform your local UniPOPS
		administrator.

	(373) Bad format specification

		You have specified a input or output format that
		doesn't conform to the rules of Fortran 77 and
		UniPOPS.  Check the specified format for errors.

	(374) Read or write error

		Error in input or output.  Check your format
		specification, permissions on the file you are using
		(if applicable), and the input or output list you have
		specified.

	(375) Requested version is unavailable, use CHNGVER

		The on-line file version you requested in 
		CHNGONLINE does not exist or has the wrong permissions.
		Use CHNGVER to choose from the available versions.

	(376) File name could not be expanded

		The wildcard or environment variable you used in the
		file name could not be expanded.
