	BSETS sets NREGION (using the BSET procedure) and then
	copies the result into any one of the 8 rows of the array, 
	BLINESEGS, which is 8x32.  

	Syntax: BSETS(nrx)

	Where nrx is the section of BLINESEGS to fill with the 32
	NREGION values (e.g. BSETS(4) would fill BLINESEGS(4,i),
	with NREGION(i) for each of the 32 possible values of i).

	BSETS could be used to set the baseline fitting region for
	a number of receivers which could each correspond to a different
	subscan number and could therefore be used to reduce all
	of that data with a simple FOR loop.

	File name : bsets.prc

	This procedure is included in LSETUP.12meter.

	No adverbs are used by this procedure.

	Adverbs Set:	NREGION  (by the BSET procedure)

	Global Adverbs:

		NSEG:	declared in the the BSET procedure, the number of
			baseline segments actually set.
	   BLINESEGS:   The array that holds up to 8 sets of NREGION values.


	Example:

	You have data with 4 possible subscan values corresponding to
	the 4 filter banks (.01, .02, .03, and .04).  For each
	subscan value, the baseline fitting region you wish to use is
	slightly different, so, using a good example of data from each
	filter bank you type:

		(you get the data for filter bank .01)
		SHOW 		to show the data for that filter bank
		BSET(1)		To set the baseline regions for filter bank
				1 and place those values into BLINESEGS.
		(you get the data for filter bank .02)
		SHOW
		BSET(2)

		etc.

	When finished, you will have 4 sets of NREGIONs stored in
	BLINESEGS.  These can then be extracted as appropriate when
	you process a large number of data from all 4 filter banks.

	Suppose you have a keep file where you want to place the
	data after you remove a first order baseline (a simple line).
	You place the data into the ASTACK array (e.g. using SELECT).
	The following procedure could then be used:

		Procedure FITALL
		scalar i, j, xscan, iscan, subscan
		# 	set the order of the fit to be 1
		nfit = 1
		#	Loop over all ACOUNT values in ASTACK
		for i = 1 to acount
		   xscan = astack(i); get(xscan)
		#	Get the subscan number
		   iscan = ifix(xscan); subscan = ifix((xscan-iscan)*100)
		#	copy the NREGION from BLINESEGS
		   for j = 1 to 32
		      nregion(j) = blinesegs(iscan,j)
                   end
		#	Now you can do the baseline fit
		   baseline
		#	and save the result to the keep file
		   keep
		end
		return
		finish
