#if CKBK
#def SCT C-
#def DSH ---
Appendix C : Sun Windows (SunView and OpenLook/X)
-------------------------------------------------
#else
#def SCT 
#def DSH 
#end
#

Normally, after logging into your account on a Sun workstation, a
windowing system starts up.  There are numerous window managers to
choose from and each does things a different way.  In most cases, the
window manager will be one of two systems provided by Sun -- SunView
(no longer supported by Sun) or OpenLook (an X-Window manager).  Since
it is impossible to describe all window managers, we will concentrate
on the two that Sun provides.  UniPOPS will work with either SunView or
any X-Window manager like OpenLook, or twm.  Sun provides some
excellent beginners' manuals describing how to get started with the
window systems, and we strongly urge you to read these. Nevertheless,
here we also give the basics of what you need to know about SunView or
OpenLook in order to take advantage of UniPOPS on the Sun workstation.

NOTE: Below we describe one of an almost infinite number of ways in
which SunView or OpenLook can be set up.  Many of the key strokes
described can be reduced considerably.  We provide documentation for
the basic SunView and OpenLook setup and for the most general set of
circumstances.  The system and account you are using may vary from that
described.


SCT1  OpenLook
DSH-----------

The OpenLook window manager is also known as 'olwm' or Open Window.

SCT1.1  OpenLook Start Up 
DSH----------------------

If OpenLook doesn't start up automatically, or if you have exited
windows and need to get back in, then issue the following UNIX command,

	openwin

The windows facility should then start up.  We provide all new UniPOPS
users with a default windows setup but the sophisticated user may wish
to modify their OpenLook setup files in the user's home directory to
customize their window arrangements.

Normally, we provide a console window (for error reporting, and of
which you should make only limited use), a set of cmdtool windows (for
executing UniPOPS or any other system, or UNIX, commands), a clock, and
a mailtool window (for sending and reading electronic mail).


SCT1.2  The OpenLook Mouse and Keyboard
DSH------------------------------------

The mouse usually rests on a special gridded pad and has three
buttons.  You should orient the "tail" of the mouse so that it is
pointing away from you.  The buttons are known as left, center, and
right.  If you experience strange behavior while moving the mouse, try
turning the metal pad by 90 degrees.  The mouse can be located to
either the left or right of the keyboard.

Most keyboards contain separate sets of function keys to the left,
right, and above the central alpha-numeric keys.  These functions keys
can be used to perform various actions within programs and within
SunView.  UniPOPS makes very limited use of these keys, but other
programs, especially editors, use them heavily.  Since UniPOPS runs
under OpenLook, many OpenLook functions can be performed while in
UniPOPS, making command entry and editing very easy.  For those who are
left-handed, the roles of the left and right function keys can be
reversed (see the system administrator, or the Sun documentation, for
details.)


SCT1.3  Exiting OpenLook
DSH---------------------

To exit from OpenLook (for example, in preparation to logging out), you
should,

  a) Exit from the analysis program, if in it, by typing,

	exit

     at the UniPOPS `>' prompt.

  b) Move the cursor (via the mouse) to a non-window (background)
     area.  Click  the right-hand button on the mouse and a menu will
     appear.  Move the cursor down the menu to the `Exit...' choice.
     Click the left button while pointing at 'Exit...' and a new window
     with instructions will appear on the screen.  You can then either
     click with the 'left' on 'Exit' or 'Cancel' in the new window.  If
     you click left on `Exit', the screen will clear and return to the
     `console' screen.  (Once at the `console' screen, you can start up
     OpenLook again by typing,

	openwin

     at the UNIX `%' prompt.)

  c) Unless you want to do something further with the computer, you
     should log out of the system by typing one of the following,

	bye 	<Ctrl-D> 	logout 		exit 

     (try these commands in the order given).


SCT1.4  Opening, Closing, and Entering Commands in Windows
DSH-------------------------------------------------------

When a window is closed, it is represented by an small icon somewhere
on the screen.  It can be opened by first moving the cursor (via the
mouse) on top of the icon, and then quickly clicking the left mouse
button twice.

Each variety of window has its own special layout. The cmdtool you will
be using to run UniPOPS consists of a border (which may be colored on a
colored screen), a small box with a down-facing arrow in the upper-left
corner of the window, little 'L' shaped high-lighted corners, a scroll
bar, short horizontal lines at the top and bottom of the scroll bar, a
slide bar within the scroll bar, up/down arrows just above and below
the slide bar, a large central area for entering commands.

You can type commands within the window by first moving the mouse until
the cursor lies within the inner border of the window. To execute
commands in another window, you must first move the cursor into that
window.

To close a window, move the cursor until it lies in the little
down-arrow box in the upper-left corner of the window you want to
close.  Click the left mouse button while pointing to the small box and
the window will close down to an icon.


SCT1.5  Moving, Resizing, etc. Windows
DSH-----------------------------------

Windows can be moved by:

     Moving the cursor to the outer border of the window which you wish
     to move. While holding down the left mouse button, move the mouse
     and drag the window to where you want to locate it.

Windows can be resized by:

     Moving the cursor to the corner of the window which you wish to
     resize.  You should see little 'L' shape highlighted corners on
     every window.  When you have correctly positioned the mouse on the
     corner of the window, the cursor should turn into a 'bullseye'.
     While holding down the left mouse button, move the mouse to
     increase or decrease the size of the window.

Other functions can be performed on the window by:

     Moving the cursor until it lies in the little down-arrow box in
     the upper-left corner of the window.  Click on the right mouse
     button and a menu should appear.  Move the mouse down to the item
     you want to choose and when the arrow is pointing at the desired
     option, click the left mouse button.  Sometimes instructions will
     appear that will inform you how to proceed but, at other times,
     the desired action is immediately executed.

     (NOTE: QUIT destroys a window forever, CLOSE performs the
#if CKBK
     same functions as clicking the left button did in Section C-2.4.)
#else
     same functions as clicking the left button did in Section 2.4, above.)
#end

SCT1.6  Scrolling a Window
DSH-----------------------

The cmdtool you will be using for UniPOPS can be scrolled to show the
previous commands that you have typed, plus any previous UniPOPS
output. There is a limit to how far you can scroll back which is
dependent upon how the system is set up. The slide bar in the scroll
bar indicates where in the `larger', virtual window you currently are.
Here are a few ways to scroll forwards and back through the window.

  .  To get to the first or last line in the window, on the right-hand
     keyboard press the HOME (or R7) key, or END (or R13) key,
     respectively.  Or, at the top or bottom of the scroll bar, click
     the left mouse button on the small horizontal bars to perform the
     same operation.

  .  To look at any section of the window, move the cursor onto the
     exact center of the slide bar at the left edge of the window.  While
     holding down the left mouse button, move the mouse up or down to
     center the desired part of the window.  The contents of the window
     will flash by as you move the mouse.

  .  To scroll line-by-line, move the cursor to either of the up/down
     boxes on the slide bar.  Clicking the left mouse button on one of
     the arrows will move you up or down the window, one line at a
     time.  Holding the mouse down will quickly move you up or down the
     window line by line.

  .  To scroll by a screenful of text, position the mouse either above
     or below the slide bar in the scroll bar.  Click the left mouse
     button and the screen will move up or down one page of text at
     a time.  Holding down the mouse button will quickly move you
     up or down the window one page at a time.

SCT1.7  Transferring Text from One Place to Another
DSH------------------------------------------------

Text can be transferred from one window to another, or from one part of
a window to another part of the same window. This is useful for
reissuing and editing commands which you have typed previously.

  a) Move the cursor to the window that contains the text you want to
     copy. You may need to scroll a window backwards to locate it.
     Move the cursor directly before, or on, the first character you
     wish to copy. Click the left mouse button. Move the cursor to the
     last character you want to copy and click the middle button. You
     should now have the whole text highlighted. If not, use the left
     and middle buttons again to re-highlight the text.

     If you highlight beyond the last character on a line, you will
     also pick up any <CR><LF> (i.e., carriage return plus line-feed
     characters) that may exist there. If you don't want the <CR><LF>,
     re-highlight the text.

  b) Press the COPY (or L6) key on the left-hand keyboard and the
     string will be put into memory. If a previous string is in memory,
     this will be overwritten by the new COPY.

  c) Move the mouse to the window into which you want to insert the
     text. You may need to scroll the window to get to the section
     where you want to paste the text (usually, you will need to press
     the END [R13] key on the right-hand keyboard).  Press the PASTE
     (or L8) key on the left-hand keyboard and the contents of the
     memory will be inserted wherever the prompt is located. If you are
     in a cmdtool and the text string contains a <CR><LF>, then UNIX or
     the program you are running will attempt to interpret the text
     string. If the text doesn't contain a <CR><LF>, you can add new
     characters to the text, edit those already there, add other text
     strings from elsewhere, etc. When done, you should then type a
     <CR> to have UNIX, or the program, interpret the text. Either
     UNIX, or the program you are running, will interpret the text as
     if you had typed it yourself.

SCT2  SunView
DSH----------

SCT2.1  SunView Start Up 
DSH---------------------

If SunView doesn't start up automatically, or if you have exited
windows and need to get back in, then issue the following UNIX command,

	sunview

The windows facility should then start up. If you prefer `inverse'
video (white characters on a dark background), use,

	sunview -i

We provide all new UniPOPS users with a default windows setup but the
sophisticated user may wish to modify their SunView setup files (called
.sunview and .defaults, located in the user's home directory) to
customize their window arrangements.

Normally, we provide a console window (for error reporting, and of
which you should make only limited use), a set of Command-Tool windows
(for executing UniPOPS or any other system, or UNIX, commands), a
clock, and a MailTool window (for sending and reading electronic
mail).

SCT2.2  The SunView Mouse and Keyboard
DSH-----------------------------------

The Sunview mouse and keyboard has many of the same functionalities as
the OpenLook mouse and keyboard (see above for details).

SCT2.3  Exiting SunView
DSH--------------------

To exit from SunView (for example, in preparation to logging out), you
should,

  a) Exit from the analysis program, if in it, by typing,

	exit

     at the UniPOPS `>' prompt.

  b) Move the cursor (via the mouse) to a non-window area, the gray
     background region.  Hold down the right-hand button on the mouse
     and a pull-down menu will appear.  Move the cursor down the menu
     until you highlight `Exit SunView'.  Click the right button and
     instructions will appear on the screen. Clicking the left button
     will confirm the `Exit SunView' command and the screen will clear
     and return to the `console' screen.  (Once at the `console'
     screen, you can start up SunView again by typing either,

	sunview

     or

	sunview -i

     at the UNIX `%' prompt.)

  c) Unless you want to do something further with the computer, you
     should log out of the system by typing one of the following,

	bye 	<Ctrl-D> 	logout 		exit 

     (try these commands in the order given).

SCT2.4  Opening, Closing, and Entering Commands in Windows
DSH-------------------------------------------------------

When a window is closed, it is represented by an small icon somewhere
on the screen.  It can be opened by first moving the cursor (via the
mouse) on top of the icon, and then clicking the left mouse button.

Each variety of window has its own special layout. The Command-Tool
(cmdtool) you will be using to run UniPOPS consists of a border (which
may be colored on a colored screen), a scroll bar on the left, a
`bubble' within the scroll bar, up/down arrows just above and below the
scroll bar, and a central area for entering commands.

You can type commands within the window by first moving the mouse until
the cursor lies within the inner border of the window. To execute
commands in another window, you must first move the cursor into that
window.

To close a window, move the cursor until it lies on the outer border of
that window. On the border, the cursor should turn from an arrow into a
circle. Then click the left-hand mouse button and the window should
close down to an icon.

SCT2.5  Moving, Resizing, etc. Windows
DSH-----------------------------------

Windows can be moved, resized, etc. by,

  a) Moving the cursor to the outer border of the window which you wish
     to resite. The cursor should turn into a circle.

  b) Click the right-hand mouse button and a pull-down menu will
     appear. Move the mouse to highlight the feature you wish to
     execute, and click right again.

     (NOTE: QUIT destroys a window forever, CLOSE and OPEN perform the
#if CKBK
     same functions as clicking the left button did in Section C-1.4.)
#else
     same functions as clicking the left button did in Section 1.4, above.)
#end

  c) In some cases, instructions will appear on the screen which will
     tell you how to proceed.

SCT2.6  Scrolling a Window
DSH-----------------------

The cmdtool you will be using for UniPOPS can be scrolled to show the
previous commands that you have typed, plus any previous UniPOPS
output. There is a limit to how far you can scroll back which is
dependent upon how the system is set up. The `bubble' in the scroll bar
indicates where in the `larger', virtual window you currently are. Here
are a few ways to scroll forwards and back through the window.

  .  To get to the first or last line in the window, on the right-hand
     keyboard press the HOME (or R7) key, or END (or R13) key,
     respectively.

  .  To look at any section of the window, move the cursor into the
     slide bar at the left edge of the window. The cursor will turn
     into a stubby, right-pointing arrow. Pressing the middle mouse
     button will scroll the text to that section of the `larger' window
     which is proportional to where the cursor is pointing in the
     scroll bar. That is, if the arrow is pointing close to the top of
     the scroll bar, you will be moved close to the top of the window.
     If the cursor is towards the bottom, you will be moved to near the
     bottom of the window.

  .  To scroll line-by-line, move the cursor to either of the up/down
     boxes at the left of the window. The cursor will turn into a
     diamond. Clicking the left mouse button will move you down the
     window, one line at a time. Clicking the right button moves you up
     one line. Clicking the middle button moves you down one
     screen-full, while, if you hold down the Shift key and click the
     middle button, you will be moved up one screenful. Holding these
     buttons down will move you quickly through the windows in the
     appropriate directions.

SCT2.7  Transferring Text from One Place to Another
DSH------------------------------------------------

Text can be transferred from one window to another, or from one part of
a window to another part of the same window. This is useful for
reissuing and editing commands which you have typed previously.

  a) Move the cursor to the window that contains the text you want to
     copy. You may need to scroll a window backwards to locate it.
     Move the cursor directly before, or on, the first character you
     wish to copy. Click the left mouse button and that character will
     be highlighted. Move the cursor to the last character you want to
     copy and click the middle button. You should now have the whole
     text highlighted. If not, use the left and middle buttons again to
     re-highlight the text.

     If you highlight beyond the last character on a line, you will
     also pick up any <CR><LF> (i.e., carriage return plus line-feed
     characters) that may exist there. If you don't want the <CR><LF>,
     re-highlight the text.

  b) Press the COPY (or L6) key on the left-hand keyboard and the
     string will be put into memory. If a previous string is in memory,
     this will be overwritten by the new COPY.

  c) Move the mouse to the window into which you want to insert the
     text. You may need to scroll the window to get to the section
     where you want to paste the text (usually, you will need to press
     the END [R13] key on the right-hand keyboard).  Press the PASTE
     (or L8) key on the left-hand keyboard and the contents of the
     memory will be inserted wherever the prompt is located. If you are
     in a cmdtool and the text string contains a <CR><LF>, then UNIX or
     the program you are running will attempt to interpret the text
     string. If the text doesn't contain a <CR><LF>, you can add new
     characters to the text, edit those already there, add other text
     strings from elsewhere, etc. When done, you should then type a
     <CR> to have UNIX, or the program, interpret the text. Either
     UNIX, or the program you are running, will interpret the text as
     if you had typed it yourself.
