	The computer staff has provided libraries of procedures which
	any user can have access to.  These procedures are documented
	below.

	One installs a procedure from a library file by using the BATCH
	command.  The syntax would be:   BATCH  <file-name>

	The file-name appropriate for a particular procedure or 
	library of procedures is indicated in the documentation for
	that procedure.  The documentation is divided into procedures
	of general interest and procedures of interest to users of a
	specific telescope.  Users of the NRAO 12-meter are provided 
	with a large number of procedures while users of the 
	NRAO 140-foot are typically not provided with any procedures.
	Although a particular procedure is documented as being of
	interest to users of a specific telescope, many of these
	procedures may be interesting to other users.

	A procedure from a library file can be easily edited with
	the EDIT command.  The syntax is: EDIT <file-name>
	EDIT will search for the indicated file in the following
	order: your current directory, the directory indicated by the
	value of the popsproc1 environment variable (usually this
	is the standard UniPOPS procedure library that this documentation
	describes) and finally the value of the popsproc2 environment
	variable (which may not be set to anything).  <file-name>, if
	found in another directory, is copied to your current directory
	and an editor started up.  You can then edit your personal
	copy of an official procedure.  You man choose to edit one
	of these procedures if you want to do something similar to what
	the procedure does, or you want to do what the procedure
	does, but in a slightly modified fashion.   See the documentation
	for EDIT for more details.

	The PRCDIR command will list out not only the user's own
	procedures but also the contents of the system procedure
	libraries.

	A user can submit their own procedures for consideration for
	inclusion in the system libraries by sending the procedures,
	with appropriate documentation, to the computer staff via the
	REPORT facility.  Only those procedures we consider well
	written, well documented, and of a general-enough nature will
	be included in a library.

