	The very few internal-array verbs in UniPOPS are:

		ASTACK	CD0	CH0	D0	D1	D2	D3
		D4	D5	D6	D7	D8	D9	H0
		H1	H2	H3	H4	H5	H6	H7
		H8	H9	MD0	MD1	MD2	MD3	MH0
		MH1	MH2	MH3 

	The functions of these verbs are:

	. ASTACK		For setting or retrieving the values of
				the internal ASTACK array.  Requires
				one argument.

	. CD0			For retrieving the values of the data
				in internal three-dimensional data
				cube.  This is read-only, values can not
				be set within UniPOPS.  Requires
				three arguments.

	. CH0			For retrieving the values of the header
				parameters of the internal 
				three-dimensional data cube.  This is
				read-only, values can not be set within
				UniPOPS.  Requires one argument.

	. D0 through D9		For setting or retrieving the values of
				the data in internal one-dimensional
				data Arrays (0) through (9).  Requires
				one argument.

	. H0 through H9		For setting or retrieving the values of
				the header parameters of the internal
				one-dimensional data Arrays (0) 
				through (9).  Requires one argument.

	. MD0 through MD3	For setting or retrieving the values of
				the data in internal two-dimensional
				data Matrices (0) through (3).
				Requires two arguments.

	. MH0 through MH3	For setting or retrieving the values of
				the header parameters of the internal
				two-dimensional data Matrices (0)
				through (3). Requires one argument.

	Internal-Array verbs are restricted in their usage in 
	comparison to array adverbs in that they cannot appear without
	their arguments.

	For example, array adverbs can be assigned values with one
	of the following:

		NREGION = 32

		(all elements of NREGION are assigned a value of 32).

		READ NREGION

		(you will be prompted to input a value for all elements
		of NREGION).

	Array adverbs can also appear in a PRINT statement as follows:

		PRINT NREGION

		(all elements of NREGION will be printed).

	Internal-Array verbs, on the other hand, can only be printed
	or assigned values with statements like the following:

		PRINT MD0(1,3)
		D0(I) = 32

	They also can not appear in READ statements!

	That is, the following are illegal:

		MH0 = 34
		READ D0(1)
		PRINT MD0
