	This document describes the averaging procedures available
	in the standard Condar SETUP file at the 12-meter : CSETUP.12meter.

	CON_PSTACK is the continuum equivalent of the spectral line
	procedure PSTACK.  It accumulates  the scans for the 
	scan numbers stored in the ASTACK array.

	Syntax: CON_PSTACK(offset)

	Where (offset + 1) is the subscan number assigned to each
	scan number found in the ASTACK array (any subscan values
	present in the ASTACK array are ignored, there is no check
	for duplicate scan numbers).  For example, if scan 45 is
	is the ASTACK array and offset is 1, scan 45.02 will be fetched 
	from the data file and processed.

	Each scan is fetched from the data file (either on-line or
	off-line if there is no on-line data or the scan numbers
	are negative) and processed by the PRCSTACK procedure.

	File name: con_pstack.prc

	PRCSTACK is the procedure that process each scan.  It is where
	all of the accumulation happens.  The version of PRCSTACK
	described here (in the filename indicated below) simply
	does the following for each scan:

	SWITCHED; AVGD; ACCUM

	If you wish to change how scans are treated and accumulated
	you should alter this procedure.

	PRCSTACK takes no arguments.

	File name: prcstack.prc

	CON_C1 calls CON_PSTACK with an argument of 0 (this results in
	all the processed scans having a subcsan number of 1).  Following
	the use of CON_PSTACK(0), AVE is called to finish the averaging
	and the results are displayed on the graphics screen.
	CON_C1 takes no arguments.

	File name: con_c1.prc

	CON_C2 calls CON_PSTACK with an argument of 1 (this results in
	all the processed scans having a subcsan number of 2).  Following
	the use of CON_PSTACK(1), AVE is called to finish the averaging
	and the results are displayed on the graphics screen.
	CON_C2 takes no arguments.

	File name: con_c2.prc

	CON_CB calls CON_PSTACK with an argument of 0 and then with
	an argument of 1 (this results in all the processed scans having 
	a subcsan number of 1 or 2, the "B" in the procedure name
	stands for "both").  Following the use of CON_PSTACK(0), and
	CON_PSTACK(1), AVE is called to finish the averaging and the results 
	are displayed on the graphics screen.  CON_CB takes no arguments.

	File name: con_cb.prc

	All of these procedures are included in CSETUP.12meter

	CSETUP.12meter also sets the following useful aliases:

	C1 is aliased to CON_C1
	C2 is aliased to CON_C2
	CB is aliased to CON_CB

	In addition to the above, CSTACK is also available for use
	with continuum scans.  It will use the PRCSTACK procedure
	to process the individual scans.
