	FIVELINE is used to reduce spectral-line five-point scans.

	Syntax: FIVELINE(cscan, fb)

	where cscan is the center scan number (any non-integer part is 
	ignored) and fb is the filter bank.

	If fb=1, then subscans .01 (and .02 if present) will be used.
	If fb=2, then subscans .03 (and .04 if present) will be used.

	The data is assumed to be taken in the order N-S-C-E-W
	with each scan being separated by only 1 in the integer
	part of each scan number (i.e. if the center is scan
	number 20, then the north scan is scan number 18, the
	south is scan number 19, etc).

	This procedure uses Array(5) through Array(9).

	The data are processed to construct appropriate input to
	the spectral line PDOC verb.

	File name: fiveline.prc

	There are two short hand procedures that use this procedure:

	FIVEL1 is short hand for FIVELINE(cscan, 1)
	Syntax:  FIVEL1(cscan)
	File name: fivel1.prc

	FIVEL2 is short hand for FIVELINE(cscan, 2)
	Syntax: FIVEL2(cscan)
	File name: fivel2.prC

	These procedures are included in LSETUP.12meter

	LSETUP.12meter also sets the following useful aliases

	LF is aliased to FIVELINE
	LF1 is aliased to FIVEL1
	LF2 is aliased to FIVEL2

	FIVELINE asks several questions:

	For 256 channel (series) data:
		"Average the two `RECEIVERS' (1=YES, 0=NO)"

		If you answer "1" then the other filter bank data will 
		be averaged with this filter bank data independent of 
		the argument to fb (which otherwise would only use the 
		single filter bank).

	"USE OLD BASELINE AND INTEGRATION REGIONS (1=YES, 0=NO)"

		If you answer "1" then whatever current baseline fitting 
		and integration regions are, they will remain the same.
		Otherwise, you will be asked to set these regions with
		the central scan displayed on the graphics screen.

	If you answer "0" to the above question, you will be asked
	to set the 2 baseline regions.  You should indicate the end
	points of two line segments (i.e. 4 clicks of the cursor) which
	cover the two regions you would like to use for the baseline
	fit.  You will then be asked to enter the integration region.
	You should indicate the end points of the region that you
	want to integrate over (the procedure uses MOMENT).


	"DISPLAY EACH SCAN ? (1 = YES, 0 = NO)"

		If you answer "1" to this question, the spectra will
		be displayed with increasing offset on the graphics
		screen (N-S-C-E-W, in order from bottom to top).
