#if CKBK
#def SCT A-6.
#def DSH ----
A-6 Function and Internal Array Verbs
-------------------------------------

#else
#def SCT 
#def DSH
#end
SCT1 Function Verbs
DSH----------------

ABS:      Returns absolute value of argument.

ACOS:     Returns arc cosine (in radians) of argument.

ASIN:     Returns arc sine (in radians) of argument.

ATAN:     Returns arc tangent (in radians) of argument.

ATAN2:    Returns arctan (in radians) of 1st argument divided
	  by 2nd.   Syntax:  ATAN2(A, B) i.e.  arctan(A/B).

C2XPIX:   Interprets the argument as a c-value and returns the 
	  corresponding x-pixel value.

CCUR:     Returns channel no. at location of crosshair for SHOW.
          Returns x-axis value at location of crosshair for PLOT.
          Returns x-cell no. at location of crosshair for 2-d plot.

CHANTOX:  Returns x-value, in units of defined lower x-axis,
	  that corresponds to given channel no.

COMPARE:  Compares TWO strings and returns TRUE if identical,
          else, FALSE.  Syntax: COMPARE(string1, string2)

CONCAT:   Returns the concatenation of TWO strings. 
	  Syntax: CONCAT(string1, string2)

COS:      Returns the cosine of argument (in radians).

COSH:     Returns the hyperbolic cos of argument (in radians).

DATE:     Returns a 16-character string containing the current date.

DIM:      Returns the positive difference of the TWO arguments.
 	  Syntax: DIM(X1, X2) and returns X1-X2 if X1>X2; else 0.

EXP:      Returns the value of e raised to the specified power.

FCUR:     For SHOW, returns frequency relative to band center in MHz
	  (LINE), or time relative to beginning of scan in sec
	  (CONDAR), at location of crosshair.  For 2-d plot, returns
	  y-axis value at location of crosshair.

FNAME:    Returns a string containing the file name corresponding to
	  the file number given as the argument.

FOPEN:    Opens the specified ASCII file using the specified
	  properties.  Returns the unit number for the opened file.
	  Syntax: unit=FOPEN(name,props)

IFIX:     Returns the truncated integer part of the argument.
	  Synonymous with INT.

INDEX:	  Returns 1st location in a string where a 2nd string is
	  located. Syntax: INDEX(string1, string2)

INT:      Returns the truncated integer part of the argument.
	  Synonymous with IFIX.

LENGTH:   Returns no. of characters in string argument.

LNBLNK:   Returns position of last non-blank character in a string.

LOG:      Returns the natural (base e) logarithm of the argument.

LOG10:    Returns the common (base 10) logarithm of the argument.

MAX:      Returns the maximum value of the TWO arguments.
	  Syntax:  MAX(x1, x2)

MCUR:     For 2-d plot, returns z-value at location of crosshair.

MIN:      Returns the minimum value of the TWO arguments.
	  Syntax: MIN(x1, x2)

MOD:      Returns the modulus of the TWO arguments.
	  Syntax:  MOD(x1, x2) , equals the remainder of x1/x2.

NINT:     Returns the nearest integer to the given parameter.

RAND:     Returns a random number between -1 and 1.

SIGN:     Returns absolute value of first argument times sign
	  of second (transfer of sign).  Syntax:  SIGN(x1, x2)

SIN:      Returns sine of the argument (in radians).

SINH:     Returns hyperbolic sine of argument (in radians).

SQRT:     Returns square root of the argument.

SUBSTR:   Returns substring contained between two locations in a given
	  string. Syntax: SUBSTR(string1, x1, x2)

T2YPIX:   Interprets the argument as a t-value and returns the 
	  corresponding y-pixel value.

TAN:      Returns tangent of argument (in radians).

TANH:     Returns hyperbolic tangent of argument (in radians).

TCUR:     Returns y-axis value at location of crosshair for SHOW and
	  PLOT.  Returns y-cell no. at location of crosshair for 2-d
	  plot.

TIME:     Returns an 8 character string containing the current time.

VCUR:     For SHOW, returns velocity in km/s (LINE), or position
	  relative to scan start in deg (CONDAR), at location of
	  crosshair.  For 2-d plot, returns x-axis value at the
	  location of crosshair.

XCUR:     Returns x-axis pixel no at location of crosshair.

XPIX2C:   Interprets the argument as an x-pixel value and returns the 
	  corresponding c-value.

XTOCHAN:  Returns channel no. corresponding to given x-value,
	  entered in units of defined lower x-axis.

YCUR:     Returns y-axis pixel no at location of crosshair.

YPIX2T:   Interprets the argument as a y-pixel value and returns the 
	  corresponding t-value.


SCT2 Internal Array Verbs
DSH----------------------

ASTACK:   Returns or sets value of specified element in the stack.

CD0:	  Returns value of given data point in Cube (0).
	  Syntax:  CD0(x1, x2, x3)

CH0:	  Returns value of given header parameter in Cube (0).

D0 - D9:  Returns or sets value of given data point in Array (n).

H0 - H9:  Returns or sets value of given header parameter in 
	  Array (n).

MD0-MD3:  Returns or sets value of given data point in Matrix (n).
	  Syntax:  MDn(x1, x2)

MH0-MH3:  Returns or sets value of given header parameter in 
	  Matrix (n). 
#if CKBK

#end
