1. Introduction
---------------

The POPS (People-Oriented Parsing Service) command-line interpreter has
been the basis for a number of the major data reduction systems
developed by NRAO over the past twenty years.  From POPS original
development by Jerry Hudson and Tom Cram, many programmers have
contributed  to its upgrading and adaptation to different computers and
operating systems.  It is currently the "brain" behind the LINE and
CONDAR single-dish analysis packages at Green Bank and Tucson, as well
as for the heavily-used AIPS package, and the 140-foot telescope
control system at Green Bank.

A major development of the last few years has been the adoption of a
Local Area Network (LAN) at Green Bank, based largely on the popular
SUN-4 workstations.  An evolution in this direction has also taken
place in Tucson.  In adapting the single-dish reduction packages to
this new environment (LAN + workstations + UNIX), a version of the
standard POPS system was implemented by Ron Maddalena at Green Bank.
However, it was realized that this was only a temporary solution, and
Ron undertook a complete reworking for the UNIX environment of both
POPS and the reduction programs that operate under it.  In addition,
the program was rewritten such that it could handle data from both the
Green Bank and Tucson telescopes.  This has resulted in UniPOPS which,
while appearing similar to `traditional' POPS for the user reducing his
or her data, is effectively a total rewrite of POPS and its associated
programs.  UniPOPS was first launched at Green Bank in January 1991. 

This Cookbook is intended to acclimatize new users to LINE and CONDAR, 
(the spectral-line and continuum analysis packages), and long-time 
users of `traditional' POPS.  We hope that users will employ the REPORT 
facility of the program (see Section 4.5) to inform the UniPOPS 
programmers of problems that they encounter with the system and things 
they would like to see added to the available options.

A new update of UniPOPS -- Version 3.3 -- is being released in June of
1994, and this version of the Cookbook is updated to include the
revisions and new features of this version.

Ron Maddalena has been the `Father of UniPOPS'. Among those who have
assisted with various aspects of the development are Bob Garwood, Frank
Ghigo, Chris Salter, and Bob Vance.


1.1 Using the Cookbook
----------------------

The UniPOPS Cookbook has been prepared as an introduction for the new
user, but it is hoped that it will also be a useful reference for more
established users that need the occasional jog to their memory. To both
these ends, an attempt has been made to incorporate a rather full index
at the back of the volume. We have also tried to give many examples
which illustrate the usage of the many facilities of the system.

The UniPOPS Reference Manual is the companion manual to the Cookbook
and picks up where the Cookbook leaves off.  That is, once you have
learned the basics about UniPOPS, you will probably turn more and more
to the Reference Manual.  In it, you will find, in a dictionary format,
complete details about every UniPOPS command, as well as general topics
like syntax and data formats.

To use the Cookbook to best advantage, new users should read completely
Chapters 2, 3, and 4 before attempting to use the program.  Once you
have mastered the contents of these chapters, you should use either the
index or the table of contents to find the additional sections that may
interest you.  We also suggest that you keep the Cookbook's Appendix A,
the "UniPOPS Verb, Adverb and Symbol Synopsis", at hand since it
contains a listing of every UniPOPS commands with a brief description
of each.  If you are using UniPOPS, the IDENTIFY verb is extremely
useful in locating information even when are not sure of the exact
name of the topic you are looking for.

Those who have never used the Unix operating system should read
Appendix B, "Useful UNIX Commands", before proceeding.  If you have
never used a Sun workstation before, you should also read Appendix C,
"Window Systems".

In the examples given in this manual, words given in UPPER-CASE 
letters can be typed in either UPPER or lower case in the program. 
Anything given in lower-case letters, can ONLY be typed in lower case. 
The symbols, <CR> and <LF>, should be read as `carriage return' and 
`line feed', respectively. Control characters are given in this manual 
as <Ctrl-x>, meaning hold down the `Control' key, and then type the symbol 
`x', (where `x' is any given key). In the examples given, we have tried 
to incorporate the appropriate UniPOPS or UNIX prompt that you will see 
when the system is awaiting your input.


1.2 Obtaining a Copy of UniPOPS
-------------------------------

Should you possess a Sun workstation at your home institute, and decide
that you would like a version of UniPOPS there to continue your data
reduction at home, then the program is available from NRAO with full
installation instructions. It can be obtained on magnetic tape (as
either compressed or uncompressed `tar' files), or can be copied via a
disk-to-disk transfer using the ftp facility. This full UniPOPS
Cookbook will also come with the system as a set of associated files.

If you wish to avail yourself of this offer, you should send e-mail
to popsmail@nrao.edu.  You will receive instructions on how to
obtain a copy of the package using ftp with full installation
instruction.  If you need additional advice, are having difficulty
installing UniPOPS or have general questions about UniPOPS contact 
Bob Garwood at NRAO, Charlottesville, (Telephone No., 804 296-0235; 
Fax No., 804 296-0278 ; or E-mail address, bgarwood@nrao.edu).
