	(PSEUDO VERB)

        Syntax:     BATCH filename

	BATCH executes commands that are located within the specified disk
	file.  The file could contain the definition of a procedure or
	any valid command.  After executing the last line in the file,
	control of the program returns to the keyboard or a previously
	invoked batch file if the batch was executed from a batch
	file.  If the file contains a procedure definition, after 
	executing BATCH, the procedure is available to the user.

	BATCH searches for the filename in one of three places:
		(1) as typed - i.e. in or relative to the current
		    directory or as an absolute pathname.
		(2) In the procedure directory pointed to by the
		    popsproc1 environment variable (which must be set
		    before the program starts).  This is the location
		    of all of the "official" UniPOPS procedures.
		(3) In the procedure directory pointed to by the
		    popsproc2 environment variable (which must be set
		    before the program starts).

	BATCH will display the filename actually used before reading
	from that file (examine the output if you are not sure what file
	BATCH was using).

	If an error occurs while reading the file, the rest of the file
	is ignored and control of the program is returned to the keyboard.

	If an error occurs while a procedure is being defined,
	a FINISH is placed after the last line without an error
	and control of the program is returned to the keyboard.

	BATCH can be used only in execute mode and must be the only 
	command on the input line.

	At most, 50 total input devices (see the description of STATUS(13)
	below for possible input devices) can be opened at once (this
	includes files opened with the FOPEN command but does not include
	any on-line data files or files controlled with the 
	CHNGFILE pseudo verb.

	No adverbs are used by BATCH.

	ADVERB SET:

	STATUS(13) : Specifies from where the program is trying to get
		     its command input and is set by BATCH or HELP 
	             commands.

		     Values: 5 = standard (keyboard) input; 7 = batch
		     file; 12 = setup file; 13 = help file

	EXAMPLE: 

	To read in PROCEDURE XX stored on disk in file xx.prc, specify:

		BATCH xx.prc

