	(PSEUDO VERB)

        Syntax:    EDIT filename 
		   EDIT

	EDIT allows you to modify an already existing text file or
	create a new one.   EDIT invokes a user-specified editor.  You 
	will be asked to supply a file name if you do not provide one 
	as an argument to EDIT.

	If filename is not found, EDIT will look for a file of that
	name in the standard procedure libraries.  If filename is
	found there, a copy will be made in your current directory and
	you will be allowed to edit that copy.  This feature is useful
	if you wish to make alterations to one of the standard
	procedures.

	The editor must be specified before you run the program.  For most
	new users this is probably accomplished the first time they
	log into their account by answering a question.  The choice
	of editor is determined by the value of the pospeditor environment
	variable.  This is usually set during log-in, often in a file
	named .unipops.  See your local system administrator or UniPOPS
	guru for help.

	EDIT can be used only in execute mode and must be the only
	thing on the command line.

	EDIT, in conjunction with the BATCH command, is useful for
	creating or editing procedures.

	NOTE:  The available editors will vary from one computer system to
	another.  Check with the system's manager for the latest
	information on editors.

	No adverbs are used or set by EDIT.

	EXAMPLES :

	You want to create a procedure, which is to remove a linear
	baseline from you data, on disk in your current directory, so
	specify:

		EDIT basrm.prc

	to start up an editor which you will use to create the file
	that contains the definition of your procedure.

	After saving the file and exiting the editor, you install the
	procedure by typing:

		BATCH basrm.prc 	
		
	You do not like the prompt that the standard 12-m procedure
	FBDATA chooses for you.  After some searching you find that the
	procedure is in a file name "fbdata.prc", so you type:

		EDIT fbdata.prc

	Since EDIT can not find a file name fbdata.prc in the current
	directory, it makes a copy of the standard file fbdata.prc for
	you and starts up an editor.  After you make your desired
	changes and saved them to your copy of fbdata.prc, you batch
	these changes in by typing :

		BATCH fbdata.prc

	EDIT always informs you when it is copying a standard procedure
	file over to your area for local editing.

