	(REGULAR VERB)

	Syntax: CLICK

	A single-click cursor verb.

	The cursor functions MCUR, CCUR, FCUR, TCUR, XCUR, YCUR, and
	VCUR all return a single value indicating something about the
	location where you have clicked the mouse button.  In the past, 
	two or more calls to two or more of these routines (and two or
	more clicks of the mouse button, during which time the cursor 
	might be moved) were required to get two or more values using
	the cursor.

	CLICK sets seven adverbs with a single button click that 
	correspond to what the seven cursor functions would have returned 
	with that click.  The seven adverbs have the form *CLICK, where *, 
	the first letter of each adverb, is the same as the corresponding 
	cursor function.  For example, after a CLICK, XCLICK and YCLICK 
	would have the value that would have been returned by an XCUR 
	followed by a YCUR.

	If CLICK is unable to assign a value to one of the CLICK
	adverbs, a value of Infinity is assigned to that adverb.  For 
	example, MCLICK can only have a value if the plot you click on 
	is a matrix plot and was the last plot you generated; FCLICK for 
	a SHOW display would be assigned a value of Infinity if the scan 
	header does not contain frequency information; XCLICK and YCLICK 
	should always have legitimate values; etc.

	All cursor verbs and functions can deal with multiple plots (of 
	potentially different types) on the graphics screen at the same 
	time.  This multi-plot capability has the following caveats:
		(1) You can only retrieve information from the last
		    64 plots on the graphics screen (there is no
		    limit to the number of plots that you can
		    send to the graphics screen.
		(2) For overlapped plots, the cursor routines will
		    return the values for the FIRST drawn plot.
		(3) MCLICK will only be set if the cursor points to
		    a matrix plot AND if it is the last plot
		    that you have drawn to the screen.

	No adverbs are used by CLICK.

	Adverbs set by CLICK:

		MCLICK		For 2-D plot, the z-value at the 
				crosshair location, see MCUR.
		CCLICK		For SHOW plot, the channel number,
				for PLOT plot, the x-axis value,
				for 2-d plot, the x-cell number,
				at the location of the crosshair.
				See CCUR.
		FCLICK		For SHOW plot, the frequency relative
				to the band center in MHz (LINE)
				or time relative to beginning of
				scan in sec. (CONDAR),
				for 2-d plot, y-axis value
				at location of crosshair.
				See FCUR.
		TCLICK		For SHOW and PLOT plot, y-axis value
				for 2-d plot, y-cell number
				at location of crosshair.
				See TCUR.
		XCLICK		x-pixel number (screen coordinates) at
				the location of the crosshair.
				See XCUR.
		YCLICK		y-pixel number (screen coordinates) at
				the location of the crosshair.
				See YCUR.
		VCLICK		For SHOW, velocity in km/s (LINE), or
				position relative to scan start 
				in degrees (CONDAR),
				for 2-d plot, x-axis value
				at the location of the crosshair.
				See VCUR.

	EXAMPLE:

	You want to place a vertical string as a label on the screen
	at a place you indicate with a single mouse click:

	CLICK				<- cursor appears; move to where 
					   you want the label to start and 
					   click once
	PLACE(XCLICK, YCLICK)		<- Moves the drawing pen to the 
					   location of your 'click'
	VCHAR("This is a label",TRUE) 	<- Plot the label to the screen

