        (REGULAR VERB)

	Syntax:	   GLOBAL ALIAS name1 verb1, name2 verb2, ....
		   GLOBAL ARRAY arrayname1(dim), arrayname2(dim), ....
		   GLOBAL POINTER name1 value1, name2 value2, ....
	 	   GLOBAL SCALAR name1, name2, ....
		   GLOBAL STRING*nsize   name1, name2, ...

	GLOBAL creates and allocates the requested space for the
	specified alias or type of adverbs such that the created symbol
	is global.  GLOBAL cannot be preceded by any command and it
	must be followed by one of the following verbs :  ALIAS, ARRAY,
	POINTER, SCALAR, or STRING.  No other commands can be placed on
	the command line after the definition.

	Only one GLOBAL statement can be placed on an input line.

	If you are trying to create a symbol while in execute mode, the
	symbol will be a global symbol regardless of whether or not you
	use GLOBAL (i.e., global symbols can only be created while in
	execute mode) and you can reference it from within execute mode
	and from within all procedures.  That is, in execute mode, you
	don't need to use GLOBAL.

	If you are trying to create a symbol while in compile mode
	(i.e., in a procedure definition) and you precede its
	definition with the word GLOBAL (as in the above examples),
	then the symbol is created as a global symbol and you can
	reference it within execute mode and all procedures.  If you
	create a symbol while in compile mode (i.e., in a procedure
	definition) and you do NOT preceded its definition by the word
	GLOBAL, then the symbol is created as a local symbol and you
	can reference it only within the procedure in which it was
	created and not in execute mode or in other procedures.

	Global symbols can can be scratched (deleted) using the SCRATCH
	verb.

	EXAMPLE:

	.  The following, if included within a procedure definition,
	   creates two global string of length 60 characters.

		GLOBAL STRING*60 DEF, DEF0    	

	.  The following, if included within a procedure definition,
	   creates three global scalars.

		GLOBAL SCALAR I, J, K    	

	.  The following, if included within a procedure definition,
	   creates a global 2 by 5 by 4 array.

		GLOBAL ARRAY DEF2 (13 TO 14,5,-9 TO -6)   	
