	(REGULAR VERB)

	Syntax:  PRNTFMT(format)

	PRNTFMT changes the default format used by PRINT, FPRINT, and
	SPRINT for printing scalar values to the format specified by
	the user.

	Format must be a string adverb or constant.  If it is blank,
	then UniPOPS will revert to using the default format of
	'1PG15.7.2' else it will attempt to use the contents of the
	string as the format specification.

	The format specification must follow the rules of Fortran 77
	for printing out a single floating point value.  Legal format
	specifications are:

	1PG10.3E2       F10.3           E20.4           10X,F20.3 SP
	F15.7

	Illegal specifications include:

	3I4             F10.0,/         A14             4L2 F20.3,10x


	Only the first 14 characters of the format specification
	will be used. 

	The allowable format specifications has up to five parts:

	Descriptor
	----------
	Used to specify scaling and sign control.  For scaling:

		nP -- Scale control, n = any integer.

	For sign control, choose one of the following:

		SS -- No plus signs printed
		SP -- Plus signs printed
		S  -- Same as SS, the system default.

	If you supply more than one P or S descriptor, all but the last
	will be ignored.  You need not supply a scaling or sign
	descriptor.

	Format
	------
	Used to control how floating point numbers are printed.  Pick
	one of the following:

		F -- decimal point format 
		E or D -- exponential format
		G -- depends upon magnitude of number printed
		     and will automatically choose between F or E.


	Field width
	----------- 
	Used to control the number of characters to use for each number
	printed.

		w -- any positive number indicating the field width.
			Make sure n is big enough to accommodate the E,
			G, or D format.

	If you don't specify w, a value of 15 is assumed.

	Number of digits
	----------------
	Used to specify either the number of digits to the left of the
	decimal point or the number of significant digits.

		.d -- a period followed by a positive integer.  For G
			specification, d is the number of significant
			digits, for all E, F, and D, w is the number of
			digits after the decimal point.

	You cannot specify d if you haven't also specified w.  If you
	don't specify d, a value of 7 is assumed.

  	Number of digits in exponent
	----------------------------
	Used with the G, E, or D specifications to indicate how many
	digits to use for printing exponents.  Choose one of the
	following:

		.e              Ee

	where e is any positive integer that indicates the number of
	digits to use in the exponent.

	If you don't specify e, a value of 2 is assumed.  For E, G, and
	D specifications, the value of w should be > d+4+e.



	No adverbs are used or changed by PRNTFMT.

	EXAMPLES:

	You want to change the default print format to f4.1 so you
	type:

		PRNTFMT('F4.1')

	After a while, you want to go back to the default format so you
	specify:

		PRNTFMT(' ')

	
	Other examples are:

		PRNTFMT('SP1PG20.8.3')

		PRNTFMT('SSF10')

		STRING*12 FMT
		FMT = "E"
		PRNTFMT(FMT)

