        (REGULAR VERB)

	Syntax:	   STRING*nsize   name1, name2, ...
		   GLOBAL STRING*nsize   name1, name2, ...

	STRING creates and allocates the requested space for string
	adverbs with the specified names of length nsize where nsize
	must be a multiple of four (4) and not greater than sixty(60).
	If you don't specify nsize, a size of 4 characters will be
	assumed.  STRING must be the only command on the input line --
	no other commands can precede or follow it.

	The names for strings must follow the conventions for naming
	adverbs and procedures.

	More than one string of the same size can be defined by a
	single STRING statement.

	If the string is created while in execute mode, the string
	becomes a global symbol and you can reference it from within
	execute mode and from within all procedures.  If the string is
	created while in compile mode (i.e., in a procedure definition)
	and is proceeded by the word GLOBAL (as in the second example
	of syntax above), then the string is created as a global symbol
	and you can reference it within execute mode and all
	procedures.  If the string is created while in compile mode
	(i.e., in a procedure definition) and is NOT proceeded by the
	word GLOBAL, then the string is created as a local symbol and
	you can reference it only within the procedure in which it was
	created and not in execute mode or in other procedures.

	Global strings cannot be resized but they can be scratched
	(deleted) using the SCRATCH verb.  Local strings can be
	scratched by editing the procedure definition which created the
	string.

	HELP STRING will list all of the global strings (built-in and
	user-defined) that currently exist.

	EXAMPLE:

	.  The following creates two 12-character strings named XY and
	   XZ.

	   	STRING*12 XY, XZ   

	.  The following lines are equivalent and create a 4-character
	   string

	   	STRING ABC
		STRING*4 ABC	 
   
	.  The following, if included within a procedure definition,
	   creates a global string of length 60 characters.

		GLOBAL STRING*60 DEF    	

	
