	UniPOPS provides various utility programs which deal with
	converting data from one format to another, diagnosing problems
	with data files, altering the index of data files,
	and for quickly reducing pointing and calibration data.

	Each of the utility programs can be run from within UniPOPS
	using the SYSTEM or Z_SYSTEM commands or they can be executed
	outside of UniPOPS at the Unix prompt.  That is, from within
	UniPOPS, you could type:

		SYSTEM <utility_program> 

	or

		Z_SYSTEM " <utility_program> "

	and, from within UNIX, you could type

		<utility_program>

	where <utility_program> is the name of the utility program you
	want to run.

 	Data Conversion
	---------------
 
	UniPOPS can convert data from many of the older formats NRAO
	has produced over the years into the format that UniPOPS likes
	as well as into many of the older formats.  Some utilities
	have been provided to ease the conversion of data.

	.  cvt.disk-disk        Converts a disk data file into
				another disk file.

	.  cvt.disk-tape        Converts a disk data file into
				a file on tape.

	.  cvt.tape-disk        Converts a data file located on tape
				into a file located on disk.

	.  cvt.tele-recs	Converts a Green Bank telescope archive
				tape into an SDD individual records file
				on disk.

	.  ieee2pcpops          Converts an IEEE Keep data file
				(possibly created using one of the
				above utilities) into a format suitable
				to be used by PC-Pops.

	.  pdfl2sdd		Converts a VAX PDFL file (on old 12-m file 
				type) to SDD format.

	.  uni2fits             Converts disk or tape files from or to 
	   fits2uni		SDD format into or from SD-FITS format.
	   readfits

	File Diagnostics
	----------------
 
	UniPOPS provides some means to check and modify the contents of
	disk files.  These utilities are:

	.  checkfile.exe        Lists the contents of an SDD file

	.  expandsdd    	Expand the size of an SDD index so
				that it can hold more data.

	.  ieeesummary.exe      Lists the contents of an IEEE Keep file

	.  makeindex.exe        Regenerates the SDD index. Corrects any 
				problem with the index.  Converts an old 
				format SDD index into the new format 
				SDD index.

	.  makeoldindex.exe     Regenerates the SDD index in the old
				format. Corrects any problem with the 
				index.  Converts a new format SDD index into 
				the old format SDD index.

	.  makeoldrecindex.exe  Regenerates the index of an SDD individual
				records file in the old format. Corrects any 
				problem with the index.  Converts a new 
				format SDD index into the old format 
				SDD index.

	.  makerecindex.exe     Regenerates the index of an SDD individual
				records file. Corrects any problem with the 
				index.  Converts an old format SDD index into
				the new format SDD index.

	.  makefile.exe         Creates an empty SDD or Memory file.

	.  mergesdd		Merge two SDD files into one new SDD file.

	Pointing and Calibration
	------------------------
 
	UniPOPS has a few utilities that will go through the on-line data
	file and quickly reduce pointing and calibration observations.
	These utilities are telescope and site dependent and may not exist
	at all sites.

	For data from the 140-ft telescope, the following utilities are
	available:  

	.  pointing             Reduces continuum pointing
				measurements made with the POINT or
				PEAK observing procedures.

	.  vsst.systemp         Reduces system temperature
				measurements made in the continuum with
				the VSST observing procedure.

	.  vsst.sourcetemp      Reduces source temperature measurements
				made in the continuum with the VSST
				observing procedure.
